Raw/serving community history mvp v2 (#164)
status-im/specs: docs/raw/serving-community-history.md

#3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 // piece[4]
```

## Seeding message history archives

The community owner node MUST seed the [generated torrent](#creating-message-archive-torrents) until a new message history archive is created.

The community owner node SHOULD NOT seed torrents for older message history archives. Only one torrent at a time should be seeded.

## Creating magnet links

Once a torrent file for a message archive is created, the community owner node MUST derive a magnet link following the [Magnet URI scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnet_URI_scheme) using the underlying BitTorrent protocol client.

## Message archive distribution

Message archives are available via the BitTorrent network as they are being [seeded by the community owner node](#seeding-message-history-archives).
Other community member nodes will download the message archives from the BitTorrent network once they receive a magnet link that contains a message archive index.

The community owner node MUST send magnet links containing message archives and the message archive index to a special community channel. The topic of that special channel follows the following format:

```

> /{application-name}/{version-of-the-application}/{content-topic-name}/{encoding}

Author: Still need to update this. What `content-topic-name` should we use here? @staheri14 thoughts?

| Community member     | A Status user that is part of a Status community, not owning the private key of the community |
| Community owner node | A Status node with message archive capabilities enabled, run by a community owner |
| Community member node| A Status node with message archive capabilities enabled, run by a community member |
| Live messages        | Waku messages received through the Waku network |
| BitTorrent client    | A program implementing the [BitTorrent](https://bittorrent.org) protocol |
| Torrent/Torrent file | A file containing metadata about data to be downloaded by BitTorrent clients |
| Magnet link          | A link encoding the metadata provided by a torrent file ([Magnet URI scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnet_URI_scheme)) |

## Supported platforms

Creating, distributing, downloading and unpacking community history archives SHOULD only be supported in Status desktop clients. Status mobile are out of scope for the MVP of this service. However we may consider bringing this service to Status Mobile in the future.

## Requirements / Assumptions

This specification has the following assumptions:

> - Store nodes are available 24/7, ensuring constant live message availability

Reviewer: You may add another item "The storage time range limit is 30 days."

- Store nodes have enough storage to persist historical messages for up to 30 days
- No store nodes have storage to persist historical messages older than 30 days
- All nodes are honest
- The network is reliable

Furthermore, it assumes that:

- Community owner nodes have enough storage to persist historical messages older than 30 days
- Community owner nodes provide archives with historical messages **at least** every 30 days
- Community owner nodes receive all community messages
- Community owner nodes are honest

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The community owner knows at least one store node from which it can query historical messages if need be
```

These assumptions are less than ideal and will be enhanced in future work. This [discussion](https://forum.vac.dev/t/status-communities-protocol-and-product-point-of-view/114) provides more information on that.

## Overview

The following is a high-level overview of the user flow and features this specification describes. For more detailed descriptions, read the dedicated sections in this specification.

### Serving community history archives

> Community owner nodes go through the following (high level) process to provide community members with message histories (assumes community owner node is available 24/7):

Reviewer: This part 
> (assumes community owner node is available 24/7):

can be included in the list of assumptions above.

1. Community owner creates a Status community (previously known as [org channels](https://github.com/status-im/specs/pull/151))

> 2. Community owner doesn't disable community history archive support (on by default but can be turned off as well - see [UI feature spec](https://github.com/status-im/feature-specs/pull/36))

Reviewer: Do these two terms mean the same thing? if yes, then I suggest to use a consistent term across the spec
"community history archive support" and "message archive capabilities" which is used in the Terminology table

> 2. Community owner doesn't disable community history archive support (on by default but can be turned off as well - see [UI feature spec](https://github.com/status-im/feature-specs/pull/36))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Community owner enables community history archive support (on by default but can be turned off as well - see [UI feature spec](https://github.com/status-im/feature-specs/pull/36))
```

3. A special type of channel to exchange metadata about the archival data is created, this channel should not be visible in the user interface

> 4. Community owner invites members and creates additional channels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Community owner invites community members and creates additional channels visible in the user interface
```

Reviewer 2: Of course a Community owner doesn't *have* to create any additional channel, they could have a community that only contains a single channel.  Whenever a community is created, by default after it's created it always contains a single channel

> 5. Community owner node receives messages and stores them into local database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Community owner node receives messages published in the channels and stores them into a local database
```

6. After 7 days, the community owner node exports and compresses last 7 days worth of messages from database and bundles it together with a [message archive index](#waku-message-archive-index) into a torrent, from which it then creates a magnet link ([Magnet URI scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnet_URI_scheme), [Extensions for Peers to Send Metadata Files](https://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0009.html)) 

> 7. Community owner sends the magnet link created in step 6) to community members via special channel created in step 3) through the Waku network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Community owner sends the magnet link created in step 6 to community members via special channel created in step 3 through the Waku network
```

> 8. Every subsequent 7 days, the steps 6) and 7) are repeated and the new message archive data is appended to the previously created message archive data 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Every subsequent 7 days, steps 6 and 7 are repeated and the new message archive data is appended to the previously created message archive data 
```

### Serving archives for missed messages

If the community owner node goes offline (where "offline" means, the owner node's main process is no longer running), it MUST go through the following process:

1. Community owner node restarts
2. Community owner node requests messages from store nodes for the missed time range for all channels in their community
3. All missed messages are stored into community owner node's local message database

> 4. If 7 or more days have elapsed since the last message history torrent was created, the community owner node will perform step 6) and 7) of [Serving community history archives](#serving-community-history-archives) for every 7 days worth of messages in the missed time range (e.g. if the node was offline for 30 days, it will create 4 message history archives)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If 7 or more days have elapsed since the last message history torrent was created, the community owner node will perform steps 6 and 7 of [Serving community history archives](#serving-community-history-archives) for every 7 days worth of messages in the missed time range (e.g. if the node was offline for 30 days, it will create 4 message history archives)
```

### Receiving community history archives

Community member nodes go through the following (high level) process to fetch and restore community message histories:

1. User joins community and becomes community member (see [org channels spec](https://github.com/status-im/specs/pull/151))
2. By joining a community, member nodes automatically subscribe to special channel for message archive metadata exchange provided by the community

> 3. Member node requests live message history (last 30 days) of special community channel from store nodes (in addition to last 7 days of message for all other community channels)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Member node requests live message history (last 30 days)  of all the community channels including the special channel from store nodes
```

Author: Actually, this change doesn't necessarily seem to apply. AFAIK messages are generally only fetched for last 7 days for all community channels. We actually need to change this so that the range is expanded to 30 days for the special channel, to ensure community members receive the latest published magnet link.

@richard-ramos Can you confirm the 7 day rule per channel?

Reviewer: This is my understanding, please let me know if the process is different than this. 
- For **Live messages**, there is no need for a magnet link, they can be fetched from store nodes. It was also implied by the following sentence mentioned at the beginning of the specs.
>Store nodes are available 24/7, ensuring constant live message availability
- Once the live messages are fetched, among them there would be some magnet links. The community member then uses the most recent magnet link and proceeds as normal (fetches the 7-day archives and deletes part of its database that corresponds to the time range covered by each archive)

> AFAIK messages are generally only fetched for last 7

Even for 7-days, it might be the case that there is no magnet link published yet, and the node needs to query the store node.

4. Member node receives waku message ([14/WAKU2-MESSAGE](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/)) that contains the metadata magnet link from the special channel
5. Member node extracts the magnet link from the waku message and passes it to torrent client
6. Member node downloads [message archive index](#message-history-archive-index) file and determines which message archives are not downloaded yet (all or some)
7. Member node fetches missing message archive data via torrent
8. Member node unpacks and decompresses message archive data to then hydrate its local database, deleting any messages for that community that the database previously stored in the same time range as covered by the message history archive

## Storing live messages

> Community owner nodes MUST store live messages as [14/WAKU2-MESSAGE](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/). This is required to provide confidentiality, authenticity, and integrity of message data distributed via the BitTorrent layer, and later validated by Status nodes when they unpack message history archives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Community owner node MUST store live messages as [14/WAKU2-MESSAGE](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/). This is required to provide confidentiality, authenticity, and integrity of message data distributed via the BitTorrent layer, and later validated by community members when they unpack message history archives.
```

Reviewer: How many community owners are assumed? one or more? if only one then we shall use the singular form throughout the spec

Author: Hard to answer. While the spec assumes a single owner, also to have a single source of truth, it's possible for owners to "transfer ownership" of communities to other members.

This is a point I've mentioned under "Considerations"

Reviewer: I'd suggest also adding it at the beginning of the spec, it remains a question for the reader until the consideration sections. up to you!

> Community owner nodes MUST store live messages as [14/WAKU2-MESSAGE](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/). This is required to provide confidentiality, authenticity, and integrity of message data distributed via the BitTorrent layer, and later validated by Status nodes when they unpack message history archives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the archival data serving, community owner nodes MUST store live messages as [14/WAKU2-MESSAGE](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/). This is in addition to their database of application messages. This is required to provide confidentiality, authenticity, and integrity of message data distributed via the BitTorrent layer, and later validated by Status nodes when they unpack message history archives.
```

Community owner nodes SHOULD remove those messages from their local databases once they are older than 30 days and after they have been turned into message archives and distributed to the BitTorrent network.

## Exporting messages for bundling

> Community owner nodes export messages from their local database for creating and bundling history archives using the following criteria:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Community owner nodes export Waku messages from their local database for creating and bundling history archives using the following criteria:
```

> - Messages to be exported MUST have a `contentTopic` that match any of the topics of the community channels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Waku messages to be exported MUST have a `contentTopic` that match any of the topics of the community channels
```

> - Messages to be exported MUST have a `timestamp` that lies within a time range of 7 days

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Waku messages to be exported MUST have a `timestamp` that lies within a time range of 7 days
```

The `timestamp` is determined by the context in which the community owner node attempts to create a message history archives as described below:

1. The community owner node attempts to create an archive periodically for the past seven days (including the current day). In this case, the `timestamp` has to lie within those 7 days.

> 2. The community owner node has been offline (owner node's main process has stopped and needs restart) and attempts to create archives for all the live messages it has missed since it went offline. In this case, the `timestamp` has to lie within the day the latest message was received and the current day.

Reviewer: Shouldn't the whole missed time range be broken into 7-day intervals? I think item 1 already covers it and there is no need for the second item. 
I'd suggest adding the explanation of item 2 (how to measure the missed time range) under the second time of this section https://github.com/status-im/specs/blob/c9184b74b5623fe14aa4bd99ed8b268a65984117/docs/raw/serving-community-history.md#serving-archives-for-missed-messages

Author: Okay, will update this. I thought it would be good to be explicit about the scenario that the node can be offline, in which case there can be up to 30 days worth of messages from which the node needs to create archives (4, 1 for each 7 days)

Exported messages MUST be restored as [14/WAKU2-MESSAGE](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/) for bundling. Waku messages that are older than 30 days and have been exported for bundling can be removed from the community owner node's database (community owner nodes still maintain a database of application messages).

## Message history archives

Message history archives are represented as `WakuMessageArchive` and created from waku messages exported from the local database. Message history archives are implemented using the following protocol buffer.

### WakuMessageHistoryArchive

The `from` field SHOULD contain a timestamp of the time range's lower bound.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its type parallels the `timestamp` field of [`WakuMessage`](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/#payloads).

```

Author: Can you elaborate what it means for it to "paralell" the field?

Reviewer: It has the same type as the `timestamp` field of the waku message.

The `to` field SHOULD contain a timestamp of the time range's the higher bound.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its type parallels the `timestamp` field of [`WakuMessage`](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/#payloads).

```

The `contentTopic` field MUST contain a list of all communiity channel topics.

The `messages` field MUST contain all messages that belong into the archive given its `from`, `to` and `contentTopic` fields.

> The `padding` field MUST contain the amount of zero bytes needed so that the overall byte size of the protobuf encoded `WakuMessageArchive` is a multiple of the `pieceLength` used to divide the message archive data into pieces, as explained in [creating message archive torrents](#creating-message-archive-torrents).

Reviewer: "pieces" is unclear at this point, I'd suggest something like below:

The `padding` field MUST contain the amount of zero bytes needed so that the overall byte size of the protobuf encoded `WakuMessageArchive` is a multiple of the `pieceLength`. This is needed for seamless encoding and decoding of archival data in interaction with BitTorrent as explained in [creating message archive torrents](#creating-message-archive-torrents).

```
syntax = "proto3"

message WakuMessageArchiveMetadata {
  uint8 version = 1
  uint64 from = 2
  uint64 to = 3
  repeated string contentTopic = 4
}

message WakuMessageArchive {
  uint8 version = 1
  WakuMessageArchiveMetadata metadata = 2
  repeated WakuMessage messages = 3 // `WakuMessage` is provided by 14/WAKU2-MESSAGE
  bytes padding = 4
}
```

## Message history archive index

> Community owner nodes MUST provide message archives for the entire community history. Each individual archive only contains a subset of the complete history, that is, data for a time range of seven days, and all message history archives are concatenated into a single file as byte string (see [Ensuring reproducible data pieces](#ensuring-reproducible-data-pieces)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Community owner nodes MUST provide message archives for the entire community history. The entire history consists of a set of `WakuMessageArchive`s where each archive contains a subset of historical`WakuMessage`s for a time range of seven days. All the `WakuMessageArchive`s are concatenated into a single file as a byte string (see [Ensuring reproducible data pieces](#ensuring-reproducible-data-pieces)).
```
```suggestion
Community owner nodes MUST provide message archives for the entire community history. Each individual archive only contains a subset of the complete history, that is, data for a time range of seven days, and all message history archives are concatenated into a single file as byte string (see [Ensuring reproducible data pieces](#ensuring-reproducible-data-pieces)).
```

### WakuMessageArchiveIndex

A `WakuMessageArchiveIndex` is a map where the key is the KECCAK-256 hash of the `WakuMessageArchiveIndexMetadata` derived from a 7-day archive and the value is an instance of that `WakuMessageArchiveIndexMetadata` corresponding to that archive.

The `offset` field MUST contain the position at which the message history archive starts in the byte string of the total message archive data. This MUST be the sum of the length of all previously created message archives in bytes (see [Creating message archive torrents](#creating-message-archive-torrents)).

```
syntax = "proto3"

message WakuMessageArchiveIndexMetadata {
  uint8 version = 1
  WakuMessageArchiveMetadata metadata = 2
  uint64 offset = 3
  uint64 num_pieces = 4
}

message WakuMessageArchiveIndex {
  map<string, WakuMessageArchiveIndexMetadata> archives = 1
}
```

The community owner node MUST update the `WakuMessageArchiveIndex` every time it creates one or more `WakuMessageArchive`s and bundle it into a new torrent (**TODO: see section**).
For every created `WakuMessageArchive`, there MUST be a `WakuMessageArchiveIndexMetadata` entry in the `archives` field `WakuMessageArchiveIndex`.

> ## Creating message archive torrents

Reviewer: The structure of the torrent file is not explained here, isn't it needed?

Community owner nodes MUST create a torrent file ("torrent") containing metadata to all message history archives. To create a torrent file, and later serve the message archive data in the BitTorrent network, community owner nodes MUST store the necessary data in dedicated files on the file system.

A torrent's source folder MUST contain the following two files:

> - `data` - Contains all protobuf encoded message history archives concatenated in ascending order

Reviewer: Maybe this

```suggestion
- `data` - Contains all protobuf encoded `WakuMessageArchive`s (as bit strings) concatenated in ascending order based on their time
```

> - `index` - Contains the protobuf encoded message history archive index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `index` - Contains the protobuf encoded `WakuMessageArchiveIndex`.
```

> Community owner nodes SHOULD store these files in a dedicated folder that is identifiable via the community id.

Reviewer: Community id is not defined

Author: You mean it should be added to the terminology section?

Reviewer: Yes, indeed

Reviewer: > dedicated folder that is identifiable via the community id.

Can you please elaborate on this? the folder should have the same name as the community id?

### Ensuring reproducible data pieces

The community owner node MUST ensure that the byte string resulting from the protobuf encoded `data` is equal to the byte string `data` from the previously generated message archive torrent, plus the data of the latest 7 days worth of messages encoded as `WakuMessageArchive`. Therefore, the size of `data` grows every seven days as it's append only.

> The community owner nodes also MUST ensure that the byte size of every individual `WakuMessageArchive` encoded protobuf is a multiple of `pieceLength: ???` (**TODO**) using the `padding` field. If the last piece of a message archive has fewer bytes than `pieceLength`, it MUST be filled with zero bytes until it has the size `pieceLength`.

Reviewer: As the `piece` is not properly introduced yet, I suggest the following edits:
```suggestion
The community owner nodes also MUST ensure that the byte size of every individual `WakuMessageArchive` encoded protobuf is a multiple of `pieceLength: ???` (**TODO**) using the `padding` field. If the protobuf encoded 'WakuMessageArchive` is not a multiple of `pieceLength`, its `padding` field MUST be filled with zero bytes and the `WakuMessageArchive` MUST be re-encoded until its size becomes multiple of `pieceLength`.
```

> This is necessary because message history archive data will be split into pieces of `pieceLength` when the torrent file is created, and the SHA1 hash of every piece is then stored in the torrent file and later used by other nodes to request the data for each individual data piece.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is necessary because the content of the `data` file will be split into pieces of `pieceLength` when the torrent file is created, and the SHA1 hash of every piece is then stored in the torrent file and later used by other nodes to request the data for each individual data piece.
```

> By fitting message archives into a multiple of `pieceLength` and ensuring they fill possible remainding space with zero bytes, community owner nodes prevent the **next** message archive to occupy that remainding space of the last piece, which will result in a different SHA1 hash for that piece.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By fitting message archives into a multiple of `pieceLength` and ensuring they fill possible remaining space with zero bytes, community owner nodes prevent the **next** message archive to occupy that remaining space of the last piece, which will result in a different SHA1 hash for that piece.
```

#### **Example: Without padding**

Let `WakuMessageArchive` "A1" be of size 20 bytes:

```
 0 11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 
```

With a `pieceLength` of 10 bytes, A1 will fit into `20 / 10 = 2` pieces:

```
 0 11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 // piece[0] SHA1: 0x123
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 // piece[1] SHA1: 0x456
```

#### **Example: With padding**

Let `WakuMessageArchive` "A2" be of size 21 bytes:

```
 0 11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20
```

With a `pieceLength` of 10 bytes, A2 will fit into `21 / 10 = 2` pieces. The remainder will introduce a third piece:

```
 0 11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 // piece[0] SHA1: 0x123
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 // piece[1] SHA1: 0x456
20                            // piece[2] SHA1: 0x789
```

> The next `WakuMessageArchive` "A3" will be appended ("#3") to the existing data and occupy the remainding space of the third data piece. The piece at index 2 will now produce a different SHA1 hash:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next `WakuMessageArchive` "A3" will be appended ("#3") to the existing `data` and occupy the remaining space of the third data piece. The piece at index 2 will now produce a different SHA1 hash:
```

```
 0 11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 // piece[0] SHA1: 0x123
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 // piece[1] SHA1: 0x456
20 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 // piece[2] SHA1: 0xeef
#3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 // piece[3]
```

> By filling up the remainding space of the third piece with A2 using its `padding` field, it is guaranteed that its SHA1 will stay the same:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By filling up the remaining space of the third piece with A2 using its `padding` field, it is guaranteed that its SHA1 will stay the same:
```

```
 0 11 22 33 44 55 66 77 88 99 // piece[0] SHA1: 0x123
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 // piece[1] SHA1: 0x456

> 20  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 // piece[2] SHA1: 0x999

Reviewer: The `padding` has zeros, but do we also know its protobuf encoding would result zeros?

Author: It does

#3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 // piece[3]
#3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 #3 // piece[4]
```

## Seeding message history archives

> The community owner node MUST seed the [generated torrent](#creating-message-archive-torrents) until a new message history archive is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The community owner node MUST seed the [generated torrent](#creating-message-archive-torrents) until a new message history archive `WakuMessageArchive` is created.
```

The community owner node SHOULD NOT seed torrents for older message history archives. Only one torrent at a time should be seeded.

## Creating magnet links

> Once a torrent file for a message archive is created, the community owner node MUST derive a magnet link following the [Magnet URI scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnet_URI_scheme) using the underlying BitTorrent protocol client.

Reviewer: >Once a torrent file for a message archive is created

for `a message archive` or `all message archives`?

## Message archive distribution

Message archives are available via the BitTorrent network as they are being [seeded by the community owner node](#seeding-message-history-archives).
Other community member nodes will download the message archives from the BitTorrent network once they receive a magnet link that contains a message archive index.

The community owner node MUST send magnet links containing message archives and the message archive index to a special community channel. The topic of that special channel follows the following format:

```
/{application-name}/{version-of-the-application}/{content-topic-name}/{encoding}
```

> All messages sent with this topic MUST be instances of `ApplicationMetadataMessage` ([6/PAYLOADS](/specs/6-payloads)) with a `payload` of `CommunityMessageArchiveIndex`.

Reviewer: `CommunityMessageArchiveIndex` is going to be added? could not find it

Reviewer: how about the type of message? I think by `CommunityMessageArchiveIndex` you meant it is the `type` of `ApplicationMetadataMessage`?

Reviewer: What happened to the magnet link? shouldn't it be published in the channel?

Only the community owner MAY post to the special channel. Other messages on this specified channel MUST be ignored by clients.
Community members MUST NOT have permission to send messages to the special channel.
However, community member nodes MUST subscribe to special channel to receive waku messages containing magnet links for message archives.

## Canonical message histories

Only community owners are allowed to distribute messages with magnet links via the special channel for magnet link exchange. Community members MUST NOT be allowed to post any messages to the special channel.

Status nodes MUST ensure that any message that isn't signed by the community owner in the special channel is ignored.

Since the magnet links are created from the community owner node's database (and previously distributed archives), the message history provided by the community owner becomes the canonical message history and single source of truth for the community.

> Community member nodes MUST replace messages in their local databases with the messages extracted from archives within the same time range. Messages that didn't receive the community owner node MUST be removed and are no longer part of the message history of interest, even if it already existed in a community member node's database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Community member nodes MUST replace messages in their local databases with the messages extracted from archives within the same time range. Messages that the community owner node didn't receive  MUST be removed and are no longer part of the message history of interest, even if it already existed in a community member node's database.
```

## Fetching message history archives

> Generally, fetching message history archives is a tree step process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, fetching message history archives is a three step process:
```

> 1. Receive message archive index magnet link as described in [Message archive distribution], download `index` file from torrent, then determine which message archives to download

Reviewer: I'd suggest linking to the "Creating message archive torrents" section for this part:
> download `index` file from torrent

3. Download individual archives

Community member nodes subscribe to the special channel that community owner nodes publish magnet links for message history archives to. There are two scenarios in which member nodes can receive such a magnet link message from the special channel:

> 1. The member node receives it via live messages, that is, messages that are relayed by store nodes 

Reviewer: Store nodes are known for their storage service as part of which they also relay messages by running waku relay protocol. So, store nodes are a subset of relay nodes but not all of them. Waku relay nodes are the ones that run the relay protocol. 
I think it might be better to skip this explanation as it may cause confusion for the readers.

```suggestion
1. The member node receives it via live messages by listening to the special channel
```

| Status user          | An Ethereum account that can be used in a Status consumer product, such as Status Mobile or Status Desktop |
| Status node          | A Status client run by a Status application |
| Community owner      | A Status user that owns the private key for a Status community |
| Community member     | A Status user that is part of a Status community, not owning the private key of the community |
| Community owner node | A Status node with message archive capabilities enabled, run by a community owner |
| Community member node| A Status node with message archive capabilities enabled, run by a community member |
| Live messages        | Waku messages received through the Waku network |
| BitTorrent client    | A program implementing the [BitTorrent](https://bittorrent.org) protocol |
| Torrent/Torrent file | A file containing metadata about data to be downloaded by BitTorrent clients |
| Magnet link          | A link encoding the metadata provided by a torrent file ([Magnet URI scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnet_URI_scheme)) |

## Supported platforms

> Creating, distributing, downloading and unpacking community history archives SHOULD only be supported in Status desktop clients. Status mobile clients SHOULD NOT implement this functionality due to bandwidth and storage limitations.

Reviewer 2: I would change this to: Status mobile are out of scope for the MVP of this service.  However we may consider bringing this service to Status Mobile in the future.

Thinking behind this comment: in many countries mobile bandwidth is plentiful, very fast, and very cheep, for example in Ukraine it costs about $5 per month for unlimited mobile data, and the speed of this mobile data is normally between 50 and 100 megabits per second (faster than wired ADSL in London!).  In the US mobile data is both expensive and slow, but for folks who are in countries with fast a cheep mobile data, mobile data usage isn't a worry.

Re. storage, in 64gb seems to be becoming the storage baseline these days, with the latest top of the line phones now offering 1TB storage(!!!).  So storage will probably not be a limitation on mobile in the future.

Author: Happy to change that!

- Community owner nodes receive all community messages
- Community owner nodes are honest

These assumptions are less than ideal and will be enhanced in future work. This [discussion](https://forum.vac.dev/t/status-communities-protocol-and-product-point-of-view/114) provides more information on that.

## Overview

The following is a high-level overview of the user flow and features this specification describes. For more detailed descriptions, read the dedicated sections in this specification.

### Serving community history archives

Community owner nodes go through the following (high level) process to provide community members with message histories (assumes community owner node is available 24/7):

1. Community owner creates a Status community (previously known as [org channels](https://github.com/status-im/specs/pull/151))

> 2. Community owner enables community history archive support (possibly on by default but can be turned off as well - see [UI feature spec](https://github.com/status-im/feature-specs/pull/36))

Reviewer 2: Perhaps change to "Community owner doesn't disable community history archive support"

Remove word "possibly", target is on by default

Author: Sounds good!

> 3. A special type of channel to exchange metadata about the archival data is created

Reviewer 2: Add: Note this channel is not visible in the UI.

Author: Can add this. Reason I didn't mentioned anything about it being hidden is because this is a spec for the protocol, which should be UI agnostic.

4. Member node receives waku message ([14/WAKU2-MESSAGE](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/)) that contains the metadata magnet link from the special channel
5. Member node extracts the magnet link from the waku message and passes it to torrent client
6. Member node downloads [message archive index](#message-history-archive-index) file and determines which message archives are not downloaded yet (all or some)
7. Member node fetches missing message archive data via torrent
8. Member node unpacks and decompresses message archive data to then hydrate its local database, deleting any messages for that community that the database previously stored in the same time range as covered by the message history archive

## Storing live messages

Community owner nodes MUST store live messages as [14/WAKU2-MESSAGE](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/14/). This is required to provide confidentiality, authenticity, and integrity of message data distributed via the BitTorrent layer, and later validated by Status nodes when they unpack message history archives.

> Community owner nodes SHOULD remove those messages from their local databases once they are older than 30 days and after they have been turned into message archives and distributed to the BitTorrent network.

Reviewer 2: Are you sure this is correct?  If a community owner node removes all messages older than 30 days from it's local database, how will the community owner be able to access messages older than 30 days using the Status desktop UI?

Author: Ah, we had this same discussion in the other PR :D 

See: https://github.com/status-im/specs/pull/162#discussion_r767980234

This is about removing the Waku messages, not the application messages.

Reviewer 2: ahh yes, thanks for reminding me! Ignore this comment ;-)

  uint64 offset = 3
  uint64 num_pieces = 4
}

message WakuMessageArchiveIndex {
  map<string, WakuMessageArchiveIndexMetadata> archives = 1
}
```

The community owner node MUST update the `WakuMessageArchiveIndex` every time it creates one or more `WakuMessageArchive`s and bundle it into a new torrent (**TODO: see section**).
For every created `WakuMessageArchive`, there MUST be a `WakuMessageArchiveIndexMetadata` entry in the `archives` field `WakuMessageArchiveIndex`.

## Creating message archive torrents

Community owner nodes MUST create a torrent file ("torrent") containing metadata to all message history archives. To create a torrent file, and later serve the message archive data in the BitTorrent network, community owner nodes MUST store the necessary data in dedicated files on the file system.

A torrent's source folder MUST contain the following two files:

- `data` - Contains all protobuf encoded message history archives concatenated in ascending order
- `index` - Contains the protobuf encoded message history archive index

Community owner nodes SHOULD store these files in a dedicated folder that is identifiable via the community id.

> Community owner nodes MAY remove older torrent files that were generated for previous message history archives, after a new torrent was created.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't the removing of the previous (old) torrent file be automatic after the new torrent file is created?  Is there any reason not to do this?

Author: That's a good point. The new/latest torrent file will replace the current one, making this paragraph obsolete.
